# Biometric Systems and Design Labs

Lab 1: Lab 1 goes over the utilization of Jupyter and Markdown. It also goes over calculation and plotting with Matplotlib in Python.

Lab 2: This lab is an introductory look into biometric data collection and statistical analysis. Through this lab, first and foremost, it is important to understand how to, specifically, collect data through physical signatures created by people and convert it into useable data. By collecting signatures using specific software, it is possible to obtain data on the signatures such as the x and y coordinates, the pressure, and time values. Through using this data, it is then possible to statistically analyze and present such data in various different ways. It reads from Signature Coordinate, Time, and Pressure data contained in a csv to determine the normal distribution of an Impostor Signature, the Pen Pressure of a Signature in 3d, and finally comparing the normal distribution of the pressure and velocity of a Genuine and an Impostor writing the same word.

Lab 3: This lab is an introduction into biometric data analysis and how to use such data in order to match and analyze Genuine and Impostor signatures. The same method as in Lab 2 was used to acquire the data required for the exercises in this lab. On top of this, this lab introduces the idea of classifiers and how to train models in order to classify future Genuine and Impostor data. The Gaussian Mixture Model will be used to calculate Genuine and Impostor scores in order to further analyze the data through statistical and graphical analysis. Through the Genuine and Impostor scores, it becomes possible to calculate critical regions and FAR and FRR values. 

Lab 4: This lab compares the effects of pre-processing and de-noising and the resulting detection of minutiae and singularities from fingerprint images (as well as the resulting pixel intensity of fingerprint images themselves).

Lab 5: This lab first utilizes a Gabor Filter to obtain a processed image from an image of a Fingerprint. It then goes on to perform 1 to 1 Minutiae based matching, and also Gabor Filter based matching, to perform matching between a probe image and a set amount of database images. 

Lab 6: This lab is an introduction into face recognition through various different techniques and methods. Through this lab, techniques to pre-process, extract features, and classify templates are employed in order to give an idea into the methods required for face recognition. PCA is being employed for face feature extraction and Euclidean Distances are used for Face Matching. Lastly, a KNN classifier is also used along with the PCA. Through these techniques, it becomes possible to create a model based off of training images and therefore match probe images against this model. Lastly, the effects of PCA components and KNN neighbors on confusion matrices and the resulting classifier accuracy are also determined through this lab.

Lab 7: This lab is an introduction into Hand Gesture Recognition and Classification and into the utiliztion of machine learning models for biometric systems. The overall objective of this lab is then to utilize and understand methods that allow for the Recognition of Hand Gestures performed by people, and then to train data sets in order to create models for further Hand Gesture recognition. After collecting information using Leap Motion devices, the gestures recorded will be used to train a classifier and then perform Classification. In this lab, Classification will be performed using a machine learning approach. More specifically, a neural network called Long Short-Term Memory is utilized and a model is created, trained using the aforementioned Hand Gesture data, and then used to Classify other Hand Gestures. Through these methods, the classifier accuracy is then evaluated using confusion matrices that are created using the data after Classification has been performed. Lastly, the effects of changing the number of samples used for training, the number of Long Short-Term Memory layers, and dropout probability in the neural network are evaluated based on the resulting classifier accuracies and confusion matrices produced.

Lab 8: This lab is a look into hand calculating inferences (such as ğ‘ƒ(ğ¼ğ‘›ğ‘“ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ğ‘›ğ‘§ğ‘=ğ¹|ğ¹ğ‘’ğ‘£ğ‘’ğ‘Ÿ=ğ‘‡)) compared to utilizing PyAgrum to create a Bayesian Network and utilizing the the LazyPropagation algorithm to make inferences. 
